We were just talking about the differences between starting and creating a container.
Along the way we ran the command Docker create and then something like Busy Box Echo.
Hi there.
We then got this printout of the container ID that was created and then we found that we could start
up the container by running Docker start and then pasting the ID in.
However, there is a real little catch to that.
We found that in order to actually see information being printed out from the container, we had to
add in that dash a flag right there.
So what would happen if you wanted to get all the output from the container without having to add in
that dash flag?
For example, let's imagine that running Docker start like this was a really expensive process and we
started up a process inside there that would take many minutes to run.
Chances are, if we forgot to add on the dash a flag to see the output from that, we might be a little
bit frustrated with ourselves because then we would have to rerun Docker, start dash a second time
and wait another couple of minutes.
In order to get around that, we can make use of an additional command of Docker logs and then the ID
of the container that we want to get output from the logs command can be used to look at a container
and retrieve all the information that has been emitted from it.
Let's try using that Docker, create start and then logs command again and see what happens.
So I will do docker create busy box and I will echo.
Hi there.
I'll then take that ID and run docker, start and paste the ID.
That starts up the container.
It executes Echo High.
They're inside of it, and then it immediately exits.
And so now at this point, I want to go back to that stopped container and get all the logs that have
been emitted inside of it.
So to do so, I can run Docker logs and then paste that ID in.
And I'll see that when the container had been running, it had printed out the string.
Hi there.
One thing to be really clear about is that by running docker logs, I'm not rerunning or restarting
the container to in any way, shape or form.
I'm just getting a record of all the logs that have been emitted from that container.
The Docker logs command is something that we're going to be using quite a bit as we are trying to debug
or set up new containers because as you can see, it's a really good way to kind of inspect a container
and see what's going on inside of it.
All right.
Still a couple of more commands to get through.
So let's take another quick pause right here and continue in the next section.